## <a name="v0.10.0">v0.10.0</a> - 2025-01-02

This release addresses a long-standing limitation of navigation comments:
they were limited only to open CRs.
With the help of [@VenelinMartinov](https://github.com/VenelinMartinov),
git-spice will now retain history of merged downstack CRs when posting navigation comments.

### Added
- commit create: Add `--fixup` flag to create fixup commits. You can use `git rebase --interactive` or `gs branch edit` to combine these fixup commits into their targets.
- rebase continue: Add `--[no-]edit` flag to specify whether an editor should open to change the commit message. Defaults to the value of the `spice.rebaseContinue.edit` configuration option if set, or true if not.
- Add `--no-verify` flag to bypass pre-commit and commit-msg Git hooks for commands that create new commits. This includes 'commit create', 'commit amend', 'commit split', and 'branch create'.
- state: Track version of the state store layout in use. This should be a no-op for users, but it protects against future changes to the layout.
- submit: Add `--update-only` flag to update open CRs but not create new ones. Branches that would create new CRs are ignored.
### Changed
- submit: Include merged downstack changes in navigation comments when restacking and resubmitting changes based on them.
- commit amend: Deprecate `-n` form of `--no-edit`. This will be deleted in a future version.
- branch delete: If multiple branches are provided, delete them in a more predictable order.
### Fixed
- Reduce repeated work between git-spice commands that invoke each other.
