## v0.1.0-beta5 - 2024-06-17
### Added
- branch create: Add -b/--base flag to specify a different base branch for the new branch.
- branch submit: Add --no-publish to push or update a branch without publishing a pull request.
- upstack restack: Accept name of base branch as an argument. Defaults to current branch.
- upstack restack: Add --no-base flag to skip restacking the starting base branch.
- {up, down, top, bottom}: Add -n/--dry-run flag. This will print the target branch name without checking it out. Output may be piped to other commands.
- branch submit: If a repository has multiple templates, allow picking between them in the submission prompt.
- Add 'gs log long' (alias 'gs ll') to list branches and their commits.
### Changed
- shell completion: Make shell argument optional and guess shell based on environment.
- Prompts are now posted to stderr instead of stdout.
- branch delete: Prompt to force delete unmerged branches instead of just letting Git fail.
- Format for how PR information is stored was changed. The format will be upgraded automatically when you run `gs branch submit` with this release. Support for the old format will be dropped in the release after this one.
- log short: Make branch labels more visually distinct with an icon next to them.
### Fixed
- Fix name for Linux AMD64 release tarball to match `uname -m` for easier fetching from scripts.
- commit {create, amend}: Don't restack the current branch on commit. Only the upstacks will be restacked.
- shell completion: Better handling of quoted strings while predicting.
