## <a name="v0.18.0">v0.18.0</a> - 2025-09-25
### Added
- branch checkout/delete/onto: display and allow filtering by CR numbers
- New experimental 'gs branch fixup' command that acts like 'git commit --amend' for any downstack commit. It will commit staged changes to a specified downstack commit, and automatically rebase the rest of the stack on top of it. See <https://abhinav.github.io/git-spice/cli/experiments> for instructions on enabling experimental features.
- branch split: Allow reusing original branch name for intermediate commits during split
- log {long, short}: Add --json flag. This prints information about tracked branches to stdout as a stream of JSON objects.
- log: Add -S/--cr-status flag to request the statuses of change requests that have been published.
### Changed
- Homebrew Tap now publishes the package as a Cask. If you previously installed with 'brew install abhinav/tap/git-spice`, switch to the cask with `brew install --cask abhinav/tap/git-spice`. You can ignore this if you installed from homebrew-core (`brew install git-spice`).
- gitlab: Submit Merge Requests with `remove_source_branch=true`. This will delete the source branch when the MR is merged. Opt out of this behavior with the `spice.forge.gitlab.removeSourceBranch` option.
### Removed
- commit amend: Delete -n flag that was deprecated in favor of --no-edit in v0.10.0 (2025-01-02). If you need a short way to use this flag, try defining a custom shorthand.
### Fixed
- repo restack: Autostash dirty changes in the working tree before the operation. Previously, the changes wouldn't be stashed until checking out the first branch, an operation which might fail because of other conflicts.
