doc/reference.md, before:

# gs command reference

```
gs <command> [flags]
```

gs is a command line tool to manage stacks of GitHub pull requests.

**Global flags**

* `-h`, `--help`: Show help for the command
* `--version`: Print version information and quit
* `-v`, `--verbose`: Enable verbose output
* `-C`, `--dir=DIR`: Change to DIR before doing anything
* `--[no-]prompt`: Whether to prompt for missing information

## gs repo init

```
gs repo (r) init (i) [flags]
```

Initialize a repository

Sets up a repository for use with gs.
This isn't strictly necessary to run as most commands will
auto-initialize the repository as needed.

Use the --trunk flag to specify the trunk branch.
This is typically 'main' or 'master',
and picking one is required for gs to function.

Use the --remote flag to specify the remote to push changes to.
If a remote is not specified,
gs can still be used to stack branches locally.
However, any commands that require a remote will fail.

**Flags**

* `--trunk=BRANCH`: Name of the trunk branch
* `--remote=NAME`: Name of the remote to push changes to
* `--reset`: Reset the store if it's already initialized

## gs repo sync

```
gs repo (r) sync (s)
```

Pull latest changes from the remote

Pulls the latest changes from the remote repository.
Deletes branches that have were merged into trunk,
and updates the base branches of branches upstack from those.

## gs upstack restack

```
gs upstack (us) restack (rs)
```

Restack this branch those above it

Restacks the current branch and all branches above it
on top of their respective bases.
If multiple branches use another branch as their base,
they will all be restacked on top of the updated base.

Run this command from the trunk branch
to restack all managed branches.

## gs downstack submit

```
gs downstack (ds) submit (s) [<name>] [flags]
```

Submit the current branch and those below it

Submits Pull Requests for the current branch,
and for all branches below, down to the trunk branch.
Branches that already have open Pull Requests will be updated.

A prompt will allow filling metadata about new Pull Requests.
Use the --fill flag to use the commit messages as-is
and submit without a prompt.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Branch to start at

**Flags**

* `-n`, `--dry-run`: Don't actually submit the stack
* `--fill`: Fill in the pull request title and body from the commit messages

## gs downstack edit

```
gs downstack (ds) edit (e) [<name>] [flags]
```

Edit the order of branches below the current branch

Opens an editor to allow changing the order of branches
from trunk to the current branch.
The branch at the top of the list will be checked out
as the topmost branch in the downstack.
Branches upstack of the current branch will not be modified.
Branches deleted from the list will also not be modified.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch to start editing from.

**Flags**

* `--editor=STRING`: Editor to use for editing the downstack.

## gs branch track

```
gs branch (b) track (tr) [<name>] [flags]
```

Track a branch with gs

Starts tracking an existing branch with gs.
Use this to teach gs about branches created outside of gs,
for example, with 'git checkout -b'.

gs will attempt to detect the base branch automatically.
You can override this with the --base flag.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch to track

**Flags**

* `-b`, `--base=STRING`: Base branch this merges into

## gs branch untrack

```
gs branch (b) untrack (untr) [<name>]
```

Forget a branch tracked with gs

Removes information about a tracked branch from gs.
Use this to forget about branches that were deleted outside gs,
or those that are no longer relevant.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch to untrack

## gs branch checkout

```
gs branch (b) checkout (co) [<name>]
```

Switch to a branch

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch to delete

## gs branch onto

```
gs branch (b) onto (on) [<onto>] [flags]
```

Move a branch onto another branch

Transplants the commits of a branch on top of another branch
without picking up any changes from the old base.
The base for the branch will be updated to the new branch.

**Arguments**

* `onto`: Destination branch

**Flags**

* `--branch=NAME`: Branch to move

## gs branch create

```
gs branch (b) create (c) [<name>] [flags]
```

Create a new branch

Creates a new branch containing the staged changes
on top of the current branch.
If there are no staged changes, creates an empty commit.

By default, the new branch is created on top of the current branch,
but it does not affect the rest of the stack.
Use the --insert flag to restack all existing upstack branches
on top of the new branch.
For example,

	# trunk -> A -> B -> C
	git checkout A
	gs branch create --insert X
	# trunk -> A -> X -> B -> C

Instead of --insert,
you can use --below to place the new branch
below the current branch.
This is equivalent to checking out the base branch
and creating a new branch with --insert there.

	# trunk -> A -> B -> C
	git checkout A
	gs branch create --below X
	# trunk -> X -> A -> B -> C

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the new branch

**Flags**

* `--insert`: Restack the upstack of the current branch on top of the new branch
* `--below`: Place the branch below the current branch. Implies --insert.
* `-m`, `--message=STRING`: Commit message

## gs branch delete

```
gs branch (b) delete (rm) [<name>] [flags]
```

Delete a branch

Deletes the specified branch and updates upstack branches to
point to the next branch down.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch to delete

**Flags**

* `-f`, `--force`: Force deletion of the branch

## gs branch fold

```
gs branch (b) fold (fo) [<name>]
```

Merge a branch into its base

Merges the changes of a branch into its base branch
and deletes it.
Branches above the folded branch will be restacked
on top of the base branch.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch

## gs branch edit

```
gs branch (b) edit (e)
```

Edit the commits in a branch

Allows editing the commits in the current branch
with an interactive rebase.

## gs branch rename

```
gs branch (b) rename (mv) [<name>]
```

Rename a branch

Renames a branch tracked by gs,
updating internal references to the branch.

If you renamed a branch without using this command,
track the new branch name with 'gs branch track',
and untrack the old name with 'gs branch untrack'.

**Arguments**

* `name`: New name of the branch

## gs branch restack

```
gs branch (b) restack (rs) [<name>]
```

Restack a branch

Updates a branch after its base branch has been changed,
rebasing its commits on top of the base.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Branch to restack

## gs branch submit

```
gs branch (b) submit (s) [<name>] [flags]
```

Submit a branch

Creates or updates a Pull Request for the specified branch,
or the current branch if none is specified.
The Pull Request will use the tracked base branch
as the merge base.

For new Pull Requests, a prompt will allow filling metadata.
Use the --title and --body flags to set the title and body,
or the --fill flag to use the commit message to fill them in.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Branch to submit

**Flags**

* `-n`, `--dry-run`: Don't actually submit the stack
* `--title=STRING`: Title of the pull request (if creating one)
* `--body=STRING`: Body of the pull request (if creating one)
* `--draft`: Mark the pull request as a draft
* `--fill`: Fill in the pull request title and body from the commit messages

## gs commit create

```
gs commit (c) create (c) [flags]
```

Create a new commit

Commits the staged changes to the current branch,
restacking upstack branches if necessary.
Use this to keep upstack branches in sync
as you update a branch in the middle of the stack.

**Flags**

* `-a`, `--all`: Stage all changes before committing.
* `-m`, `--message=STRING`: Use the given message as the commit message.

## gs commit amend

```
gs commit (c) amend (a) [flags]
```

Amend the current commit

Amends the last commit with the staged changes,
restacking upstack branches if necessary.
Use this to keep upstack branches in sync
as you update a branch in the middle of the stack.

**Flags**

* `-m`, `--message=STRING`: Use the given message as the commit message.
* `-n`, `--no-edit`: Don't edit the commit message

## gs up

```
gs up (gu) [flags]
```

Move up one branch

Moves up the stack to the branch on top of the current one.
If there are multiple branches with the current branch as base,
you will be prompted to pick one.

## gs down

```
gs down (gd) [flags]
```

Move down one branch

Moves down the stack to the branch below the current branch.
As a convenience,
if the current branch is at the bottom of the stack,
this command will move to the trunk branch.

## gs top

```
gs top (gt) [flags]
```

Move to the top of the stack

Jumps to the top-most branch in the current branch's stack.
If there are multiple top-most branches,
you will be prompted to pick one.

## gs bottom

```
gs bottom (gb) [flags]
```

Move to the bottom of the stack

Jumps to the bottom-most branch below the current branch.
This is the branch just above the trunk.

## gs trunk

```
gs trunk (gg) [flags]
```

Move to the trunk branch

Commit message:

Add 'stack submit' and 'stack restack' (#39)

doc/reference.md, after:

# gs command reference

```
gs <command> [flags]
```

gs is a command line tool to manage stacks of GitHub pull requests.

**Global flags**

* `-h`, `--help`: Show help for the command
* `--version`: Print version information and quit
* `-v`, `--verbose`: Enable verbose output
* `-C`, `--dir=DIR`: Change to DIR before doing anything
* `--[no-]prompt`: Whether to prompt for missing information

## gs repo init

```
gs repo (r) init (i) [flags]
```

Initialize a repository

Sets up a repository for use with gs.
This isn't strictly necessary to run as most commands will
auto-initialize the repository as needed.

Use the --trunk flag to specify the trunk branch.
This is typically 'main' or 'master',
and picking one is required for gs to function.

Use the --remote flag to specify the remote to push changes to.
If a remote is not specified,
gs can still be used to stack branches locally.
However, any commands that require a remote will fail.

**Flags**

* `--trunk=BRANCH`: Name of the trunk branch
* `--remote=NAME`: Name of the remote to push changes to
* `--reset`: Reset the store if it's already initialized

## gs repo sync

```
gs repo (r) sync (s)
```

Pull latest changes from the remote

Pulls the latest changes from the remote repository.
Deletes branches that have were merged into trunk,
and updates the base branches of branches upstack from those.

## gs stack submit

```
gs stack (s) submit (s) [flags]
```

Submit the current stack

**Flags**

* `-n`, `--dry-run`: Don't actually submit the stack
* `--fill`: Fill in the pull request title and body from the commit messages

## gs stack restack

```
gs stack (s) restack (rs)
```

Restack the current stack

## gs upstack restack

```
gs upstack (us) restack (rs)
```

Restack this branch those above it

Restacks the current branch and all branches above it
on top of their respective bases.
If multiple branches use another branch as their base,
they will all be restacked on top of the updated base.

Run this command from the trunk branch
to restack all managed branches.

## gs downstack submit

```
gs downstack (ds) submit (s) [<name>] [flags]
```

Submit the current branch and those below it

Submits Pull Requests for the current branch,
and for all branches below, down to the trunk branch.
Branches that already have open Pull Requests will be updated.

A prompt will allow filling metadata about new Pull Requests.
Use the --fill flag to use the commit messages as-is
and submit without a prompt.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Branch to start at

**Flags**

* `-n`, `--dry-run`: Don't actually submit the stack
* `--fill`: Fill in the pull request title and body from the commit messages

## gs downstack edit

```
gs downstack (ds) edit (e) [<name>] [flags]
```

Edit the order of branches below the current branch

Opens an editor to allow changing the order of branches
from trunk to the current branch.
The branch at the top of the list will be checked out
as the topmost branch in the downstack.
Branches upstack of the current branch will not be modified.
Branches deleted from the list will also not be modified.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch to start editing from.

**Flags**

* `--editor=STRING`: Editor to use for editing the downstack.

## gs branch track

```
gs branch (b) track (tr) [<name>] [flags]
```

Track a branch with gs

Starts tracking an existing branch with gs.
Use this to teach gs about branches created outside of gs,
for example, with 'git checkout -b'.

gs will attempt to detect the base branch automatically.
You can override this with the --base flag.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch to track

**Flags**

* `-b`, `--base=STRING`: Base branch this merges into

## gs branch untrack

```
gs branch (b) untrack (untr) [<name>]
```

Forget a branch tracked with gs

Removes information about a tracked branch from gs.
Use this to forget about branches that were deleted outside gs,
or those that are no longer relevant.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch to untrack

## gs branch checkout

```
gs branch (b) checkout (co) [<name>]
```

Switch to a branch

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch to delete

## gs branch onto

```
gs branch (b) onto (on) [<onto>] [flags]
```

Move a branch onto another branch

Transplants the commits of a branch on top of another branch
without picking up any changes from the old base.
The base for the branch will be updated to the new branch.

**Arguments**

* `onto`: Destination branch

**Flags**

* `--branch=NAME`: Branch to move

## gs branch create

```
gs branch (b) create (c) [<name>] [flags]
```

Create a new branch

Creates a new branch containing the staged changes
on top of the current branch.
If there are no staged changes, creates an empty commit.

By default, the new branch is created on top of the current branch,
but it does not affect the rest of the stack.
Use the --insert flag to restack all existing upstack branches
on top of the new branch.
For example,

	# trunk -> A -> B -> C
	git checkout A
	gs branch create --insert X
	# trunk -> A -> X -> B -> C

Instead of --insert,
you can use --below to place the new branch
below the current branch.
This is equivalent to checking out the base branch
and creating a new branch with --insert there.

	# trunk -> A -> B -> C
	git checkout A
	gs branch create --below X
	# trunk -> X -> A -> B -> C

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the new branch

**Flags**

* `--insert`: Restack the upstack of the current branch on top of the new branch
* `--below`: Place the branch below the current branch. Implies --insert.
* `-m`, `--message=STRING`: Commit message

## gs branch delete

```
gs branch (b) delete (rm) [<name>] [flags]
```

Delete a branch

Deletes the specified branch and updates upstack branches to
point to the next branch down.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch to delete

**Flags**

* `-f`, `--force`: Force deletion of the branch

## gs branch fold

```
gs branch (b) fold (fo) [<name>]
```

Merge a branch into its base

Merges the changes of a branch into its base branch
and deletes it.
Branches above the folded branch will be restacked
on top of the base branch.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Name of the branch

## gs branch edit

```
gs branch (b) edit (e)
```

Edit the commits in a branch

Allows editing the commits in the current branch
with an interactive rebase.

## gs branch rename

```
gs branch (b) rename (mv) [<name>]
```

Rename a branch

Renames a branch tracked by gs,
updating internal references to the branch.

If you renamed a branch without using this command,
track the new branch name with 'gs branch track',
and untrack the old name with 'gs branch untrack'.

**Arguments**

* `name`: New name of the branch

## gs branch restack

```
gs branch (b) restack (rs) [<name>]
```

Restack a branch

Updates a branch after its base branch has been changed,
rebasing its commits on top of the base.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Branch to restack

## gs branch submit

```
gs branch (b) submit (s) [<name>] [flags]
```

Submit a branch

Creates or updates a Pull Request for the specified branch,
or the current branch if none is specified.
The Pull Request will use the tracked base branch
as the merge base.

For new Pull Requests, a prompt will allow filling metadata.
Use the --title and --body flags to set the title and body,
or the --fill flag to use the commit message to fill them in.

**Arguments**

* `name`: Branch to submit

**Flags**

* `-n`, `--dry-run`: Don't actually submit the stack
* `--title=STRING`: Title of the pull request (if creating one)
* `--body=STRING`: Body of the pull request (if creating one)
* `--draft`: Mark the pull request as a draft
* `--fill`: Fill in the pull request title and body from the commit messages

## gs commit create

```
gs commit (c) create (c) [flags]
```

Create a new commit

Commits the staged changes to the current branch,
restacking upstack branches if necessary.
Use this to keep upstack branches in sync
as you update a branch in the middle of the stack.

**Flags**

* `-a`, `--all`: Stage all changes before committing.
* `-m`, `--message=STRING`: Use the given message as the commit message.

## gs commit amend

```
gs commit (c) amend (a) [flags]
```

Amend the current commit

Amends the last commit with the staged changes,
restacking upstack branches if necessary.
Use this to keep upstack branches in sync
as you update a branch in the middle of the stack.

**Flags**

* `-m`, `--message=STRING`: Use the given message as the commit message.
* `-n`, `--no-edit`: Don't edit the commit message

## gs up

```
gs up (gu) [flags]
```

Move up one branch

Moves up the stack to the branch on top of the current one.
If there are multiple branches with the current branch as base,
you will be prompted to pick one.

## gs down

```
gs down (gd) [flags]
```

Move down one branch

Moves down the stack to the branch below the current branch.
As a convenience,
if the current branch is at the bottom of the stack,
this command will move to the trunk branch.

## gs top

```
gs top (gt) [flags]
```

Move to the top of the stack

Jumps to the top-most branch in the current branch's stack.
If there are multiple top-most branches,
you will be prompted to pick one.

## gs bottom

```
gs bottom (gb) [flags]
```

Move to the bottom of the stack

Jumps to the bottom-most branch below the current branch.
This is the branch just above the trunk.

## gs trunk

```
gs trunk (gg) [flags]
```

Move to the trunk branch
