doc/src/setup/auth.md, before:

---
icon: material/lock
description: >-
  Authenticate with GitHub to push and pull changes.
---

# Authentication

git-spice is offline-first.
It does not require authentication for local stacking operations.
However, once you want to push or pull changes to/from a GitHub repository,
you will need to authenticate with GitHub.

This page covers the authentication options for git-spice.

## Logging in

To authenticate with GitHub, run:

```sh
gs auth login
```

This will present you with a list of authentication methods.

See [Authentication methods](#authentication-methods) for details
on what to expect from each method,
or skip on to [Pick an authentication method](#picking-an-authentication-method).

## Authentication methods

git-spice provides several ways to authenticate with GitHub.

### OAuth

With OAuth authentication, you will take the following steps:

1. Authenticate yourself on github.com in your browser.
2. Authorize git-spice to act on your behalf on the **current device only**.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs auth login
Select an authentication method: {red}OAuth{reset}
  {gray}1.{reset} Visit {cyan}https://github.com/login/device{reset}
  {gray}2.{reset} Enter code: ABCD-1234
The code expires in a few minutes.
It will take a few seconds to verify after you enter it.
```

Two options are available for OAuth:

- **OAuth**: grants access to all repositories, public and private.
- **OAuth: Public repositories only**:
  grants access to public repositories only.

For more granular control, use [GitHub App](#github-app) authentication.

!!! note

    For private repositories owned by organizations,
    you will need a member with administrative access to the repository
    to allow installation of the git-spice OAuth App.
    If that is not an option,
    use a [Personal Access Token](#personal-access-token).

### GitHub App

With GitHub App authentication, you will take the following steps:

1. Authenticate yourself on github.com in your browser.
2. Authorize git-spice to act on your behalf on the **current device only**.
3. Install the [git-spice GitHub App](https://github.com/apps/git-spice)
   on the repositories you want to use git-spice with.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs auth login
Select an authentication method: {red}GitHub App{reset}
  {gray}1.{reset} Visit {cyan}https://github.com/login/device{reset}
  {gray}2.{reset} Enter code: ABCD-1234
The code expires in a few minutes.
It will take a few seconds to verify after you enter it.
```

**Important**: Authentication alone does not grant any access.
You **must** install the GitHub App to access repositories with git-spice.

!!! note

    For private repositories owned by organizations,
    you will need a member with administrative access to the repository
    to allow installation of the git-spice GitHub App.
    If that is not an option,
    use a [Personal Access Token](#personal-access-token).

### Personal Access Token

To use a Personal Access Token with git-spice,
you will generate a Personal Access Token on GitHub
and enter it in the prompt.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs auth login
Select an authentication method: {red}Personal Access Token{reset}
{green}Enter Personal Access Token{reset}:
```

The token may be a classic token or a fine-grained token.

=== "Classic token"

    With classic tokens, you can grant access to all repositories,
    or all public repositories only.
    These tokens have the ability to never expire.

      To use a classic token:

      1. Go to <https://github.com/settings/tokens/new>.
         This may ask you to re-authenticate.
      2. In the token creation form:

          - enter a descriptive note for the token
          - pick an expiration window, or select "No expiration"
          - select `repo` scope for full access to all repositories,
            or `public_repo` for access to public repositories only

      3. Click "Generate token" and copy the token.

=== "Fine-grained token"

    With fine-grained tokens, you have more granular control over
    repositories that you grant access to.
    These token must always have an expiration date.

      To use a fine-grained token:

      1. Go to <https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new>.
         This may ask you to re-authenticate.
      2. In the token creation form:

          - pick a descriptive note for the token
          - pick an expiration window
          - in the *Repository access* section, select the repositories
            you want to use git-spice with
          - in the *Repository permissions* section,
            grant **Read and write** access to **Pull requests** and **Contents**

      3. Click "Generate token" and copy the token.

After you have a token, enter it into the prompt.

### GitHub CLI

If you have the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) installed and authenticated,
you can select this as the authentication method.

This requires no additional steps.
We'll request a token from GitHub CLI as needed.

### GITHUB_TOKEN

If you have a `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable set,
that takes precedence over all other authentication methods.

The $$gs auth login$$ operation will fail if you use this method.

## Picking an authentication method

[OAuth](#oauth) and [GitHub App](#github-app) authentication are best if you
have the permissions needed to install OAuth/GitHub Apps
on all repositories that you want to use git-spice with.
The two are equivalent in terms of user experience.
Use GitHub App authentication if you don't want to give git-spice access
to all your repositories.

[GitHub CLI](#github-cli) is the most convenient method if you already have
the GitHub CLI installed and authenticated.
It loses some security benefits of the other methods,
as it re-uses the token from the GitHub CLI.
You lose the ability to revoke the git-spice token
without revoking the GitHub CLI token.

[Personal Access Token](#personal-access-token) is flexible and secure.
It may be used even with repositories where you don't have permission to
install OAuth/GitHub Apps.
However, it requires manual token management, making it less convenient.

[GITHUB_TOKEN](#github_token) is the least convenient and the least secure method.
It is intended only for CI/CD environments where you have no other choice.

!!! question "Where is my token stored?"

    The token is stored in a system-specific secure storage.
    See [Secret storage](../guide/internals.md#secret-storage) for details.

Commit message:

auth: use unsafe secret stash if secure is unavailable
Headless Linux machines (Docker environments and the like)
can't easily get access to GNOME Keyring or other secure storage.
In such cases, we should fall back to plain text storage,
but warn the user about it so they know what's going on.

Resolves #293

doc/src/setup/auth.md, after:

---
icon: material/lock
description: >-
  Authenticate with GitHub to push and pull changes.
---

# Authentication

git-spice is offline-first.
It does not require authentication for local stacking operations.
However, once you want to push or pull changes to/from a GitHub repository,
you will need to authenticate with GitHub.

This page covers the authentication options for git-spice.

## Logging in

To authenticate with GitHub, run:

```sh
gs auth login
```

This will present you with a list of authentication methods.

See [Authentication methods](#authentication-methods) for details
on what to expect from each method,
or skip on to [Pick an authentication method](#picking-an-authentication-method).

## Authentication methods

git-spice provides several ways to authenticate with GitHub.

### OAuth

With OAuth authentication, you will take the following steps:

1. Authenticate yourself on github.com in your browser.
2. Authorize git-spice to act on your behalf on the **current device only**.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs auth login
Select an authentication method: {red}OAuth{reset}
  {gray}1.{reset} Visit {cyan}https://github.com/login/device{reset}
  {gray}2.{reset} Enter code: ABCD-1234
The code expires in a few minutes.
It will take a few seconds to verify after you enter it.
```

Two options are available for OAuth:

- **OAuth**: grants access to all repositories, public and private.
- **OAuth: Public repositories only**:
  grants access to public repositories only.

For more granular control, use [GitHub App](#github-app) authentication.

!!! note

    For private repositories owned by organizations,
    you will need a member with administrative access to the repository
    to allow installation of the git-spice OAuth App.
    If that is not an option,
    use a [Personal Access Token](#personal-access-token).

### GitHub App

With GitHub App authentication, you will take the following steps:

1. Authenticate yourself on github.com in your browser.
2. Authorize git-spice to act on your behalf on the **current device only**.
3. Install the [git-spice GitHub App](https://github.com/apps/git-spice)
   on the repositories you want to use git-spice with.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs auth login
Select an authentication method: {red}GitHub App{reset}
  {gray}1.{reset} Visit {cyan}https://github.com/login/device{reset}
  {gray}2.{reset} Enter code: ABCD-1234
The code expires in a few minutes.
It will take a few seconds to verify after you enter it.
```

**Important**: Authentication alone does not grant any access.
You **must** install the GitHub App to access repositories with git-spice.

!!! note

    For private repositories owned by organizations,
    you will need a member with administrative access to the repository
    to allow installation of the git-spice GitHub App.
    If that is not an option,
    use a [Personal Access Token](#personal-access-token).

### Personal Access Token

To use a Personal Access Token with git-spice,
you will generate a Personal Access Token on GitHub
and enter it in the prompt.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs auth login
Select an authentication method: {red}Personal Access Token{reset}
{green}Enter Personal Access Token{reset}:
```

The token may be a classic token or a fine-grained token.

=== "Classic token"

    With classic tokens, you can grant access to all repositories,
    or all public repositories only.
    These tokens have the ability to never expire.

      To use a classic token:

      1. Go to <https://github.com/settings/tokens/new>.
         This may ask you to re-authenticate.
      2. In the token creation form:

          - enter a descriptive note for the token
          - pick an expiration window, or select "No expiration"
          - select `repo` scope for full access to all repositories,
            or `public_repo` for access to public repositories only

      3. Click "Generate token" and copy the token.

=== "Fine-grained token"

    With fine-grained tokens, you have more granular control over
    repositories that you grant access to.
    These token must always have an expiration date.

      To use a fine-grained token:

      1. Go to <https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens/new>.
         This may ask you to re-authenticate.
      2. In the token creation form:

          - pick a descriptive note for the token
          - pick an expiration window
          - in the *Repository access* section, select the repositories
            you want to use git-spice with
          - in the *Repository permissions* section,
            grant **Read and write** access to **Pull requests** and **Contents**

      3. Click "Generate token" and copy the token.

After you have a token, enter it into the prompt.

### GitHub CLI

If you have the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) installed and authenticated,
you can select this as the authentication method.

This requires no additional steps.
We'll request a token from GitHub CLI as needed.

### GITHUB_TOKEN

If you have a `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable set,
that takes precedence over all other authentication methods.

The $$gs auth login$$ operation will fail if you use this method.

## Picking an authentication method

[OAuth](#oauth) and [GitHub App](#github-app) authentication are best if you
have the permissions needed to install OAuth/GitHub Apps
on all repositories that you want to use git-spice with.
The two are equivalent in terms of user experience.
Use GitHub App authentication if you don't want to give git-spice access
to all your repositories.

[GitHub CLI](#github-cli) is the most convenient method if you already have
the GitHub CLI installed and authenticated.
It loses some security benefits of the other methods,
as it re-uses the token from the GitHub CLI.
You lose the ability to revoke the git-spice token
without revoking the GitHub CLI token.

[Personal Access Token](#personal-access-token) is flexible and secure.
It may be used even with repositories where you don't have permission to
install OAuth/GitHub Apps.
However, it requires manual token management, making it less convenient.

[GITHUB_TOKEN](#github_token) is the least convenient and the least secure method.
It is intended only for CI/CD environments where you have no other choice.

## Safety

By default, git-spice stores your GitHub authentication token
in a system-specific secure storage.
On macOS, this is the system Keychain.
On Linux, it uses the [Secret Service](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/secret-service/latest/),
which is typically provided by [GNOME Keyring](https://specifications.freedesktop.org/secret-service/latest/).
<!-- TODO (if we enable Windows): On Windows, it uses the Windows Credential Manager APIs. -->

Since version <!-- gs:version unreleased -->,
if your system does not provide a secure storage service,
git-spice will fall back to storing secrets in a plain-text file
at `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/git-spice/secrets.json` or the user's configuration directory.
If it does that, it will clearly indicate so at login time,
reporting the full path to the secrets file.

<details>
  <summary>Example</summary>

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs auth login
{gray}...{reset}
{yellow}WRN{reset} Storing secrets in plain text at /home/user/.config/git-spice/secrets.json. Be careful!
{green}INF{reset} github: successfully logged in
```

</details>
