testdata/script/README.md, before:

# Test scripts

This directory contains test scripts
that verify the behavior of git-spice end-to-end.

The test script language is defined at [go-internal/testscript](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/rogpeppe/go-internal/testscript),
but in short:

- Commands are specified in the form, `name arg1 arg2 ...`,
  one per line.
- Comments begin with `#`.
- Strings are quoted with single quote only.
- Supporting files are specified below the script
  using `-- path/to/file --` syntax (see [txtar](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/rogpeppe/go-internal/txtar))

## Commands

Besides the base functionality of testscript,
we instrument the engine with the following additional commands:

### as

```
as 'User Name <user@example.com>'
```

Sets the author and committer of the commits that follow.

### at

```
at <YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS>
```

Sets the timestamp of the commits that follow.

### cmpenvJSON

```
cmpenvJSON <want> <got>
```

Compares the contents of the two files as JSON,
replacing environment variables in the forms `${VAR}` and `$VAR`
with their values at the time of the comparison.

### git

```
[!] git <command> <args...>
```

Runs the real `git` command.

### gs

```
gs <command> <args...>
```

Runs git-spice itself.
This is built from the current source code
and has a testing-only Forge registered against it.
See [shamhub](#shamhub) for more details.

### mockedit

```
mockedit <file>
```

This is a fake text editor.
Its behavior can be controlled by setting the following environment variables:

- `MOCKEDIT_RECORD`:
  Path to a file where the original content will be saved.
- `MOCKEDIT_GIVE`:
  Path to a file that will be returned as the edited content.

If neither of these is set, the editor will fail.

### shamhub

```
shamhub <command> <args...>
```

ShamHub is a fake code forge with a REST API similar to GitHub.
`gs` binaries in test scripts are instrumented with this.
The shamhub command is used to control the behavior of the forge.

The following subcommands are available:

#### shamhub init

```
shamhub init
```

This must be run before any other shamhub commands.
It spins up a ShamHub server and
configures environment variables to be able to connect to it.

It makes two environment variables available:

- `SHAMHUB_URL`: The URL of the ShamHub server.
- `SHAMHUB_API_URL`: The URL of the ShamHub API.

#### shamhub new

```
shamhub new <remote> <owner/repo>
```

Creates a new repository on ShamHub with the given `<owner/repo>`,
and adds it as a remote to the local repository under the name `<remote>`.

#### shamhub clone

```
shamhub clone <owner/repo> <dir>
```

Clones a repository from ShamHub to the given directory.

#### shamhub merge

```
shamhub merge <owner/repo> <num>
```

Merges Change Request `<num>` made in the given repository
into its default branch.

#### shamhub dump

```
shamhub dump changes
shamhub dump change <num>
```

Dumps a JSON blob of all changes or a single change made against ShamHub.

### true

```
true <args...>
```

Exits with status 0 regardless of parameters or input.

### with-term

```
with-term [options] <script> -- <command> <args...>
```

Runs the given command inside a terminal emulator.
The `<script>` controls the terminal's behavior.
See the internal/termtest package for more details.

Commit message:

Add auth commands, use Device Flow or PAT
Finally drops the hack of shelling out to `gs auth login`
in favor of explicit authentication.
Multiple authentication methods are supported:

- OAuth with repo or public_repo scope
- GitHub App
- Personal Access Token

Setting `GITHUB_TOKEN` supersedes other login methods,
which allows for scripting in environments where prompting
for login choices isn't an option.

After authentication, the token is stored in a system-specific
secure storage.
Because this limits the number of supported systems,
in the future we can add a fallback plain text storage.

This PR was made with GitHub App authentication.
Note that at this time, the GitHub App is private
and cannot be installed on anyone else's account.
Beta users should use OAuth or PAT.

Resolves #22

testdata/script/README.md, after:

# Test scripts

This directory contains test scripts
that verify the behavior of git-spice end-to-end.

The test script language is defined at [go-internal/testscript](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/rogpeppe/go-internal/testscript),
but in short:

- Commands are specified in the form, `name arg1 arg2 ...`,
  one per line.
- Comments begin with `#`.
- Strings are quoted with single quote only.
- Supporting files are specified below the script
  using `-- path/to/file --` syntax (see [txtar](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/rogpeppe/go-internal/txtar))

## Commands

Besides the base functionality of testscript,
we instrument the engine with the following additional commands:

### as

```
as 'User Name <user@example.com>'
```

Sets the author and committer of the commits that follow.

### at

```
at <YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS>
```

Sets the timestamp of the commits that follow.

### cmpenvJSON

```
cmpenvJSON <want> <got>
```

Compares the contents of the two files as JSON,
replacing environment variables in the forms `${VAR}` and `$VAR`
with their values at the time of the comparison.

### git

```
[!] git <command> <args...>
```

Runs the real `git` command.

### gs

```
gs <command> <args...>
```

Runs git-spice itself.
This is built from the current source code
and has a testing-only Forge registered against it.
See [shamhub](#shamhub) for more details.

### mockedit

```
mockedit <file>
```

This is a fake text editor.
Its behavior can be controlled by setting the following environment variables:

- `MOCKEDIT_RECORD`:
  Path to a file where the original content will be saved.
- `MOCKEDIT_GIVE`:
  Path to a file that will be returned as the edited content.

If neither of these is set, the editor will fail.

### shamhub

```
shamhub <command> <args...>
```

ShamHub is a fake code forge with a REST API similar to GitHub.
`gs` binaries in test scripts are instrumented with this.
The shamhub command is used to control the behavior of the forge.

The following subcommands are available:

#### shamhub init

```
shamhub init
```

This must be run before any other shamhub commands.
It spins up a ShamHub server and
configures environment variables to be able to connect to it.

It makes two environment variables available:

- `SHAMHUB_URL`: The URL of the ShamHub server.
- `SHAMHUB_API_URL`: The URL of the ShamHub API.

#### shamhub new

```
shamhub new <remote> <owner/repo>
```

Creates a new repository on ShamHub with the given `<owner/repo>`,
and adds it as a remote to the local repository under the name `<remote>`.

#### shamhub clone

```
shamhub clone <owner/repo> <dir>
```

Clones a repository from ShamHub to the given directory.

#### shamhub merge

```
shamhub merge <owner/repo> <num>
```

Merges Change Request `<num>` made in the given repository
into its default branch.

#### shamhub dump

```
shamhub dump changes
shamhub dump change <num>
```

Dumps a JSON blob of all changes or a single change made against ShamHub.

#### shamhub register

```
shamhub register <username>
```

Registers a new user on ShamHub. No password is required.
To log in as the user, set `SHAMHUB_USERNAME` to the username
and run `gs auth login`.

### true

```
true <args...>
```

Exits with status 0 regardless of parameters or input.

### with-term

```
with-term [options] <script> -- <command> <args...>
```

Runs the given command inside a terminal emulator.
The `<script>` controls the terminal's behavior.
See the internal/termtest package for more details.
