doc/src/recipes.md, before:

---
icon: material/tooltip-check
title: Recipes
description: >-
  Common tasks, workflows, and configuration for git-spice.
---

# Recipes

## Workflows

### Create branches without committing

<!-- gs:version v0.5.0 -->

The default workflow for git-spice forces you to commit immediately
to new branches: $$gs branch create$$ will create a new branch,
and commit staged changes to it immediately,
or if there are no staged changes, it will create an empty commit.

If you have a workflow where you prefer to create branches first,
and then work on them, you can use the following to adjust the workflow:

- Configure $$gs branch create$$ to never commit by default
  by setting $$spice.branchCreate.commit$$ to false.

    ```bash
    git config --global spice.branchCreate.commit false
    ```

- Use $$gs branch create$$ as usual to create branches.
  Changes will not be committed automatically anymore.

    ```bash
    gs branch create my-branch
    ```

- If, for some branches, you do want to commit staged changes upon creation,
  use the `--commit` flag.

    ```bash
    gs branch create my-branch --commit
    ```

## Tasks

### Import a Pull Request from GitHub

git-spice can recognize and manage GitHub Pull Requests
that were not created using git-spice.

**Steps:**

1. Check the PR out locally.
   For example, if you're using the GitHub CLI:

    ```bash
    gh pr checkout 123
    ```

2. Track the branch with git-spice.

    ```bash
    gs branch track
    ```

3. Attempt to re-submit the branch.
   git-spice will automatically detect the existing open PR for it,
   and associate the branch with that PR.

    ```bash
    gs branch submit
    ```

### Track an existing stack

If you have an existing, manually managed stack of branches,
you can import it into git-spice with repeated use of $$gs branch track$$.

**Steps:**

1. Check out the base branch and initialize git-spice.

    ```bash
    git checkout main
    gs repo init
    ```

2. Check out the first branch in the stack and track it.

    ```bash
    git checkout feat1
    gs branch track
    ```

3. Repeat the previous step for each branch in the stack.

    ```bash
    git checkout feat2
    gs branch track
    # ... repeat until done ...
    ```

4. You may now use git-spice to manage the stack as usual.

Commit message:

repo sync: Delete merged branches for unknown forges
Follow up to #404.
Previously, we just skipped branch deletion for unknown forges.
This degrades more gracefully by doing a best-effort check
for merged branches by looking at what's reachable from the trunk.

This will not handle squashes or rebases,
but it's good enough in lieu of official support for the forge.

Resolves #391

doc/src/recipes.md, after:

---
icon: material/tooltip-check
title: Recipes
description: >-
  Common tasks, workflows, and configuration for git-spice.
---

# Recipes

## Workflows

### Create branches without committing

<!-- gs:version v0.5.0 -->

The default workflow for git-spice forces you to commit immediately
to new branches: $$gs branch create$$ will create a new branch,
and commit staged changes to it immediately,
or if there are no staged changes, it will create an empty commit.

If you have a workflow where you prefer to create branches first,
and then work on them, you can use the following to adjust the workflow:

- Configure $$gs branch create$$ to never commit by default
  by setting $$spice.branchCreate.commit$$ to false.

    ```bash
    git config --global spice.branchCreate.commit false
    ```

- Use $$gs branch create$$ as usual to create branches.
  Changes will not be committed automatically anymore.

    ```bash
    gs branch create my-branch
    ```

- If, for some branches, you do want to commit staged changes upon creation,
  use the `--commit` flag.

    ```bash
    gs branch create my-branch --commit
    ```

### Working with non-GitHub remotes

<!-- gs:version unreleased -->

If you're using a Git hosting service that is not GitHub
(e.g. GitLab, Bitbucket, etc.),
you can use git-spice to manage your branches locally without any issues.
However, when it comes to pushing branches to the remote,
there are some options that can help your workflow.

- Stop git-spice from trying to create GitHub Pull Requests
  by setting $$spice.submit.publish$$ to false.

    ```bash
    git config spice.submit.publish false
    ```

- $$gs repo sync$$ will detect branches that were merged
  with merge commits or fast-forwards, and delete them locally.
  For branches that were merged by rebasing or squashing,
  you'll need to manually delete merged branches with $$gs branch delete$$.

## Tasks

### Import a Pull Request from GitHub

git-spice can recognize and manage GitHub Pull Requests
that were not created using git-spice.

**Steps:**

1. Check the PR out locally.
   For example, if you're using the GitHub CLI:

    ```bash
    gh pr checkout 123
    ```

2. Track the branch with git-spice.

    ```bash
    gs branch track
    ```

3. Attempt to re-submit the branch.
   git-spice will automatically detect the existing open PR for it,
   and associate the branch with that PR.

    ```bash
    gs branch submit
    ```

### Track an existing stack

If you have an existing, manually managed stack of branches,
you can import it into git-spice with repeated use of $$gs branch track$$.

**Steps:**

1. Check out the base branch and initialize git-spice.

    ```bash
    git checkout main
    gs repo init
    ```

2. Check out the first branch in the stack and track it.

    ```bash
    git checkout feat1
    gs branch track
    ```

3. Repeat the previous step for each branch in the stack.

    ```bash
    git checkout feat2
    gs branch track
    # ... repeat until done ...
    ```

4. You may now use git-spice to manage the stack as usual.
