doc/src/guide/cr.md, before:

---
title: Submitting stacks
icon: octicons/git-pull-request-16
description: >-
  Create and update stacked change requests from a stack of branches.
---

# Working with remote repositories

!!! note

    This page assumes you are using one of the supported Git forges.
    These are:

    - <!-- gs:github -->
    - <!-- gs:gitlab --> (<!-- gs:version v0.9.0 -->)

    If you're using a different service,
    you can still use git-spice,
    but some features may not be available.

    See:

    - [:material-tooltip-check: Recipes > Working with unsupported remotes](../community/recipes.md#working-with-unsupported-remotes)
    - [:material-frequently-asked-questions: FAQ > Will git-spice add support for other Git hosting services](../community/faq.md#will-git-spice-add-support-for-other-git-hosting-services)

## Submitting change requests

!!! info

    git-spice uses the term *Change Request* to refer to submitted branches.
    These corespond to Pull Requests on GitHub,
    and to Merge Requests on GitLab.

When your local changes are ready,
use the following commands to submit your changes upstream:

- $$gs branch submit$$ (or $$gs branch submit|gs bs$$)
  submits the current branch
- $$gs downstack submit$$ (or $$gs downstack submit|gs dss$$)
  submits the current branch and all branches below it
- $$gs upstack submit$$ (or $$gs upstack submit|gs uss$$)
  submits the current branch and all branches above it
- $$gs stack submit$$ (or $$gs stack submit|gs ss$$)
  submits all branches in the stack

Branch submission is an idempotent operation:
change requests will be created for branches that don't already have them,
and updated for branches that do.

For new change requests, these commands will prompt you for CR information.
For example:

```freeze language="ansi"
--8<-- "captures/branch-submit.txt"
```

!!! important

    Be aware that for stacks with multiple branches,
    you must have write access to the repository
    so that you can push branches to it.
    See [Limitations](limits.md) for more information.

### Navigation comments

Change Requests created by git-spice will include a navigation comment
at the top with a visual representation of the stack,
and the position of the current branch in it.

=== "<!-- gs:github -->"

    ![Example of a stack navigation comment on GitHub](../img/stack-comment.png)

=== "<!-- gs:gitlab -->"

    ![Example of a stack navigation comment on GitLab](../img/stack-comment-glab.png)

This behavior may be changed with the $$spice.submit.navigationComment$$
configuration key.


!!! info "Stack history in navigation comments"

    <!-- gs:version v0.10.0 -->
    When possible, git-spice will remember CRs as they're merged into trunk,
    and continue to list them in navigation comments of branches
    based on those changes.
    However, it is unable to do this following complex stack manipulation
    operations.

### Non-interactive submission

Use the `--fill` flag (or `-c` since <!-- gs:version v0.3.0 -->)
provided by all the above commands
to fill in the PR information from commit messages
and skip the interactive prompts.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs stack submit --fill
{green}INF{reset} Created #123: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/123
{green}INF{reset} Created #125: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/125
```

Additionally, with $$gs branch submit$$,
you may also specify title and body directly.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit {gray}\{reset}
    --title {blue}"Fix a bug"{reset} {gray}\{reset}
    --body {blue}"This fixes a very bad bug."{reset}
{green}INF{reset} Created #123: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/123
```

!!! info "Setting draft status non-interactively"

    Change requests may be marked as draft or ready for review
    non-interactively with the `--draft` and `--no-draft` flags.

    By default, the submit commands will leave
    the draft state of existing PRs unchanged.
    If the `--draft` or `--no-draft` flags are provided,
    the draft state of all PRs will be set accordingly.

### Force pushing

<!-- gs:version v0.2.0 -->

```freeze language="terminal" float="right"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit --force
```

By default, git-spice will refuse to push to branches
if the operation could result in data loss.
To override these safety checks
and push to a branch anyway, use the `--force` flag.

### Update existing CRs only

<!-- gs:version v0.10.0 -->

All submit commands support the `--update-only` flag.
If provided, the submission will update existing CRs in a stack,
but not create new ones.


This is most convenient with $$gs stack submit$$ and friends,
allowing you to iterate on a local change that isn't ready for submission,
while still being able to pull updates into downstack PRs
that have already been submitted.

??? example "Example workflow"

    Suppose we're starting with a stack:

        main -> bird (#1) -> fish (#2) -> goat

    `bird` and `fish` have already been submitted, `goat` is in-progress.

    ```freeze language="terminal"
    {gray}# While working in goat, make a minor fixup to bird.{reset}
    {yellow}[goat]{reset} {green}${reset} gs commit create -m {mag}'bird: preen a little'{reset}

    {gray}# Pull that change into bird{reset}
    {yellow}[goat]{reset} {green}${reset} gs branch checkout bird
    {yellow}[bird]{reset} {green}${reset} git restore --source {cyan}$(gs top -n){reset} -- bird.go
    {yellow}[bird]{reset} {green}${reset} gs commit create -a -m {mag}'preen a little'{reset}
    {green}INF{reset} fish: restacked on bird
    {green}INF{reset} goat: restacked on fish

    {gray}# Update fish and bird in one command without submitting goat{reset}
    {yellow}[bird]{reset} {green}${reset} gs stack submit --update-only
    {green}INF{reset} bird: Updated #1
    {green}INF{reset} goat: Updated #2
    {green}INF{reset} goat: Skipping unsubmitted branch: --update-only
    ```

    !!! tip

        The above example makes use of the `-n`/`--dry-run` flag
        of the [stack navigation commands](branch.md#navigating-the-stack).
        With this flag, the command prints the hash of the target branch
        without checking it out.

## Syncing with upstream

To sync with the upstream repository,
use $$gs repo sync$$ (or $$gs repo sync|gs rs$$).

```freeze language="terminal" float="right"
{green}${reset} gs repo sync
{green}INF{reset} main: pulled 3 new commit(s)
{green}INF{reset} feat1: #123 was merged
{green}INF{reset} feat1: deleted (was 9f1c9af)
```

This will update the trunk branch (e.g. `main`)
with the latest changes from the upstream repository,
and delete any local branches whose PRs have been merged.

### Handling closed Change Requests

When running $$gs repo sync$$, if a Change Request was closed
(but not merged), git-spice will detect this
and offer you the choice of deleting that branch locally.

If you prefer not to be prompted about closed CRs,
you can set the configuration option to ignore them:

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} git config {red}spice.repoSync.closedChanges{reset} {mag}ignore{reset}
```

For more details, see the [configuration reference](../cli/config.md#spicereposyncclosedchanges).

## Adding labels

<!-- gs:version v0.16.0 -->

You can add labels to change requests when submitting them
with the `-l`/`--label` flag.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit --label bug --label urgent
{green}INF{reset} Created #123: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/123
```

You can also configure default labels
with the $$spice.submit.label$$ configuration option.
Labels specified with the `--label` flag
will be combined with configured labels.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} git config {red}spice.submit.label{reset} {mag}'needs-review'{reset}
```

When updating existing change requests,
new labels are added to any existing labels on the CR.

## Requesting reviews

<!-- gs:version unreleased -->

You can request reviews from specific users or teams
when submitting change requests with the `-r`/`--reviewer` flag.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit --reviewer alice --reviewer bob
{green}INF{reset} Created #123: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/123
```

You can also configure default reviewers
with the $$spice.submit.reviewers$$ configuration option.
Reviewers specified with the `--reviewer` flag
will be combined with configured reviewers.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} git config {red}spice.submit.reviewers{reset} {mag}'alice,myorg/backend-team'{reset}
```

When updating existing change requests,
new reviewers are added to any existing reviewers on the CR.

## Importing open CRs

You can import an existing open CR into git-spice
by checking it out locally, tracking the branch with git-spice,
and re-submitting it.

For example:

=== "<!-- gs:github -->"

    ```freeze language="terminal"
    {gray}# Check out the PR locally{reset}
    {green}${reset} gh pr checkout 359

    {gray}# Track it with git-spice{reset}
    {green}${reset} gs branch track

    {gray}# Re-submit it{reset}
    {green}${reset} gs branch submit
    {green}INF{reset} comment-recovery: Found existing CR #359
    {green}INF{reset} CR #359 is up-to-date: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/359
    ```

=== "<!-- gs:gitlab -->"

    ```freeze language="terminal"
    {gray}# Check out the MR locally{reset}
    {green}${reset} glab mr checkout 8

    {gray}# Track it with git-spice{reset}
    {green}${reset} gs branch track

    {gray}# Re-submit it{reset}
    {green}${reset} gs branch submit
    {green}INF{reset} reticulating-splines: Found existing CR !8
    {green}INF{reset} CR !8 is up-to-date: https://gitlab.com/abg/test-repo/-/merge_requests/8
    ```

!!! important

    For this to work, the following MUST all be true:

    - The CR is pushed to a branch in the upstream repository
    - The local branch name exactly matches the upstream branch name

This will work even for CRs that were not created by git-spice,
or authored by someone else, as long as the above conditions are met.

In <!-- gs:version v0.5.0 --> or newer,
this will also auto-detect [navigation comments](#navigation-comments)
posted to the PR by git-spice, and update them if necessary.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit
{green}INF{reset} comment-recovery: Found existing CR #359
{green}INF{reset} comment-recovery: Found existing navigation comment: {gray}...{reset}
```

### Importing stacks of CRs

<!-- gs:version v0.19.0 -->

If you have a stack of related CRs to import,
check out all the branches locally
and use $$gs downstack track$$ to track them all at once.

```freeze language="terminal"
{gray}# Check out the PRs locally{reset}
{green}${reset} gh pr checkout 359
{green}${reset} gh pr checkout 360
{green}${reset} gh pr checkout 361

{gray}# Track the entire downstack{reset}
{green}${reset} gs downstack track
```

See also [:material-tooltip-check: Recipes > Track an existing stack](../community/recipes.md#track-an-existing-stack).

Commit message:

Add assignee support to submit commands

doc/src/guide/cr.md, after:

---
title: Submitting stacks
icon: octicons/git-pull-request-16
description: >-
  Create and update stacked change requests from a stack of branches.
---

# Working with remote repositories

!!! note

    This page assumes you are using one of the supported Git forges.
    These are:

    - <!-- gs:github -->
    - <!-- gs:gitlab --> (<!-- gs:version v0.9.0 -->)

    If you're using a different service,
    you can still use git-spice,
    but some features may not be available.

    See:

    - [:material-tooltip-check: Recipes > Working with unsupported remotes](../community/recipes.md#working-with-unsupported-remotes)
    - [:material-frequently-asked-questions: FAQ > Will git-spice add support for other Git hosting services](../community/faq.md#will-git-spice-add-support-for-other-git-hosting-services)

## Submitting change requests

!!! info

    git-spice uses the term *Change Request* to refer to submitted branches.
    These corespond to Pull Requests on GitHub,
    and to Merge Requests on GitLab.

When your local changes are ready,
use the following commands to submit your changes upstream:

- $$gs branch submit$$ (or $$gs branch submit|gs bs$$)
  submits the current branch
- $$gs downstack submit$$ (or $$gs downstack submit|gs dss$$)
  submits the current branch and all branches below it
- $$gs upstack submit$$ (or $$gs upstack submit|gs uss$$)
  submits the current branch and all branches above it
- $$gs stack submit$$ (or $$gs stack submit|gs ss$$)
  submits all branches in the stack

Branch submission is an idempotent operation:
change requests will be created for branches that don't already have them,
and updated for branches that do.

For new change requests, these commands will prompt you for CR information.
For example:

```freeze language="ansi"
--8<-- "captures/branch-submit.txt"
```

!!! important

    Be aware that for stacks with multiple branches,
    you must have write access to the repository
    so that you can push branches to it.
    See [Limitations](limits.md) for more information.

### Navigation comments

Change Requests created by git-spice will include a navigation comment
at the top with a visual representation of the stack,
and the position of the current branch in it.

=== "<!-- gs:github -->"

    ![Example of a stack navigation comment on GitHub](../img/stack-comment.png)

=== "<!-- gs:gitlab -->"

    ![Example of a stack navigation comment on GitLab](../img/stack-comment-glab.png)

This behavior may be changed with the $$spice.submit.navigationComment$$
configuration key.


!!! info "Stack history in navigation comments"

    <!-- gs:version v0.10.0 -->
    When possible, git-spice will remember CRs as they're merged into trunk,
    and continue to list them in navigation comments of branches
    based on those changes.
    However, it is unable to do this following complex stack manipulation
    operations.

### Non-interactive submission

Use the `--fill` flag (or `-c` since <!-- gs:version v0.3.0 -->)
provided by all the above commands
to fill in the PR information from commit messages
and skip the interactive prompts.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs stack submit --fill
{green}INF{reset} Created #123: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/123
{green}INF{reset} Created #125: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/125
```

Additionally, with $$gs branch submit$$,
you may also specify title and body directly.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit {gray}\{reset}
    --title {blue}"Fix a bug"{reset} {gray}\{reset}
    --body {blue}"This fixes a very bad bug."{reset}
{green}INF{reset} Created #123: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/123
```

!!! info "Setting draft status non-interactively"

    Change requests may be marked as draft or ready for review
    non-interactively with the `--draft` and `--no-draft` flags.

    By default, the submit commands will leave
    the draft state of existing PRs unchanged.
    If the `--draft` or `--no-draft` flags are provided,
    the draft state of all PRs will be set accordingly.

### Force pushing

<!-- gs:version v0.2.0 -->

```freeze language="terminal" float="right"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit --force
```

By default, git-spice will refuse to push to branches
if the operation could result in data loss.
To override these safety checks
and push to a branch anyway, use the `--force` flag.

### Update existing CRs only

<!-- gs:version v0.10.0 -->

All submit commands support the `--update-only` flag.
If provided, the submission will update existing CRs in a stack,
but not create new ones.


This is most convenient with $$gs stack submit$$ and friends,
allowing you to iterate on a local change that isn't ready for submission,
while still being able to pull updates into downstack PRs
that have already been submitted.

??? example "Example workflow"

    Suppose we're starting with a stack:

        main -> bird (#1) -> fish (#2) -> goat

    `bird` and `fish` have already been submitted, `goat` is in-progress.

    ```freeze language="terminal"
    {gray}# While working in goat, make a minor fixup to bird.{reset}
    {yellow}[goat]{reset} {green}${reset} gs commit create -m {mag}'bird: preen a little'{reset}

    {gray}# Pull that change into bird{reset}
    {yellow}[goat]{reset} {green}${reset} gs branch checkout bird
    {yellow}[bird]{reset} {green}${reset} git restore --source {cyan}$(gs top -n){reset} -- bird.go
    {yellow}[bird]{reset} {green}${reset} gs commit create -a -m {mag}'preen a little'{reset}
    {green}INF{reset} fish: restacked on bird
    {green}INF{reset} goat: restacked on fish

    {gray}# Update fish and bird in one command without submitting goat{reset}
    {yellow}[bird]{reset} {green}${reset} gs stack submit --update-only
    {green}INF{reset} bird: Updated #1
    {green}INF{reset} goat: Updated #2
    {green}INF{reset} goat: Skipping unsubmitted branch: --update-only
    ```

    !!! tip

        The above example makes use of the `-n`/`--dry-run` flag
        of the [stack navigation commands](branch.md#navigating-the-stack).
        With this flag, the command prints the hash of the target branch
        without checking it out.

## Syncing with upstream

To sync with the upstream repository,
use $$gs repo sync$$ (or $$gs repo sync|gs rs$$).

```freeze language="terminal" float="right"
{green}${reset} gs repo sync
{green}INF{reset} main: pulled 3 new commit(s)
{green}INF{reset} feat1: #123 was merged
{green}INF{reset} feat1: deleted (was 9f1c9af)
```

This will update the trunk branch (e.g. `main`)
with the latest changes from the upstream repository,
and delete any local branches whose PRs have been merged.

### Handling closed Change Requests

When running $$gs repo sync$$, if a Change Request was closed
(but not merged), git-spice will detect this
and offer you the choice of deleting that branch locally.

If you prefer not to be prompted about closed CRs,
you can set the configuration option to ignore them:

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} git config {red}spice.repoSync.closedChanges{reset} {mag}ignore{reset}
```

For more details, see the [configuration reference](../cli/config.md#spicereposyncclosedchanges).

## Adding labels

<!-- gs:version v0.16.0 -->

You can add labels to change requests when submitting them
with the `-l`/`--label` flag.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit --label bug --label urgent
{green}INF{reset} Created #123: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/123
```

You can also configure default labels
with the $$spice.submit.label$$ configuration option.
Labels specified with the `--label` flag
will be combined with configured labels.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} git config {red}spice.submit.label{reset} {mag}'needs-review'{reset}
```

When updating existing change requests,
new labels are added to any existing labels on the CR.

## Requesting reviews

<!-- gs:version unreleased -->

You can request reviews from specific users or teams
when submitting change requests with the `-r`/`--reviewer` flag.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit --reviewer alice --reviewer bob
{green}INF{reset} Created #123: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/123
```

You can also configure default reviewers
with the $$spice.submit.reviewers$$ configuration option.
Reviewers specified with the `--reviewer` flag
will be combined with configured reviewers.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} git config {red}spice.submit.reviewers{reset} {mag}'alice,myorg/backend-team'{reset}
```

When updating existing change requests,
new reviewers are added to any existing reviewers on the CR.

## Assigning change requests

<!-- gs:version unreleased -->

You can assign change requests to specific users
when submitting them with the `-a`/`--assign` flag.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit --assign alice --assign bob
{green}INF{reset} Created #123: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/123
```

You can also configure default assignees
with the $$spice.submit.assignees$$ configuration option.
Assignees specified with the `--assign` flag
will be combined with configured assignees.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} git config {red}spice.submit.assignees{reset} {mag}'alice,bob'{reset}
```

When updating existing change requests,
new assignees are added to any existing assignees on the CR.

## Importing open CRs

You can import an existing open CR into git-spice
by checking it out locally, tracking the branch with git-spice,
and re-submitting it.

For example:

=== "<!-- gs:github -->"

    ```freeze language="terminal"
    {gray}# Check out the PR locally{reset}
    {green}${reset} gh pr checkout 359

    {gray}# Track it with git-spice{reset}
    {green}${reset} gs branch track

    {gray}# Re-submit it{reset}
    {green}${reset} gs branch submit
    {green}INF{reset} comment-recovery: Found existing CR #359
    {green}INF{reset} CR #359 is up-to-date: https://github.com/abhinav/git-spice/pull/359
    ```

=== "<!-- gs:gitlab -->"

    ```freeze language="terminal"
    {gray}# Check out the MR locally{reset}
    {green}${reset} glab mr checkout 8

    {gray}# Track it with git-spice{reset}
    {green}${reset} gs branch track

    {gray}# Re-submit it{reset}
    {green}${reset} gs branch submit
    {green}INF{reset} reticulating-splines: Found existing CR !8
    {green}INF{reset} CR !8 is up-to-date: https://gitlab.com/abg/test-repo/-/merge_requests/8
    ```

!!! important

    For this to work, the following MUST all be true:

    - The CR is pushed to a branch in the upstream repository
    - The local branch name exactly matches the upstream branch name

This will work even for CRs that were not created by git-spice,
or authored by someone else, as long as the above conditions are met.

In <!-- gs:version v0.5.0 --> or newer,
this will also auto-detect [navigation comments](#navigation-comments)
posted to the PR by git-spice, and update them if necessary.

```freeze language="terminal"
{green}${reset} gs branch submit
{green}INF{reset} comment-recovery: Found existing CR #359
{green}INF{reset} comment-recovery: Found existing navigation comment: {gray}...{reset}
```

### Importing stacks of CRs

<!-- gs:version v0.19.0 -->

If you have a stack of related CRs to import,
check out all the branches locally
and use $$gs downstack track$$ to track them all at once.

```freeze language="terminal"
{gray}# Check out the PRs locally{reset}
{green}${reset} gh pr checkout 359
{green}${reset} gh pr checkout 360
{green}${reset} gh pr checkout 361

{gray}# Track the entire downstack{reset}
{green}${reset} gs downstack track
```

See also [:material-tooltip-check: Recipes > Track an existing stack](../community/recipes.md#track-an-existing-stack).
